on the latest Masters in Business
podcast. Wow. Jose Maniah runs wealth
management services uh at BNY, Bank of
New York. Incredible bank, incredible
history. They're literally the first
bank uh BNY is the first bank in
America, the first publicly listed stock
on the New York Stock Exchange. Uh not
only do they have 2.2 2 trillion in
assets, but they touch about one out of
every $5 in assets globally. Uh they
touch, you know, 6070 trillion worth of
assets. Uh whether it's through their
clearing, their infrastructure, their
custodianship. They're just a massive
bank, the oldest bank in America, the
first bank in America formed by
Alexander Hamilton. Um, Jose has a
fascinating background and a fascinating
career as both a chief investment
officer and CEO. few people are better
positioned to talk about not only what's
happening in the state of wealth
management uh in the US and globally but
what's coming next what what digital uh
technology and tokenization means for
asset managers as well as the impact of
AI on how we're all going to deal with
our our dollars I thought this
conversation was absolutely fascinating
and I think you will also with no
further ado my masters in business
interview of BNY's Jose Maniah.
[Music]
>> Welcome to Bloomberg.
>> Hey, good to be here. Thank you for
having me.
>> So, let's start out talking about your
background. Bachelor's in finance from
Manhattan College, an MBA from Tuck
Business School at Dartmouth. What was
the career plan? You know, I I uh my
career plan was always a work in
progress. I I I always say I almost had
like a little bit of a Forest Gump
approach to uh to uh starting my career.
I um first I'm a first generation
American, so you know, I grew up in
Washington Heights to Dominic in a
Dominican family, Dominican parents. So,
baseball was big
>> my life. And for a while there, I
thought I was going to be a pro baseball
player. What
>> did you play?
>> I was I was a pitcher.
>> Uhhuh.
>> Um did pretty well. Did pretty well up
until the point that I didn't. And uh
then
>> high school or college?
>> High school and college. Yeah.
>> I pitched in high school. No curveball.
That's the end of your pitching career.
>> Yeah. I uh my whole thing is if I threw
strikes, I did pretty well. If I didn't,
I was going to get in trouble.
>> So you a little control issue. Is that
the problem?
>> Yeah. A little control issues. Yeah.
>> It's hard to throw both hard and
accurately.
>> Yes, it is. Yes, it is. It's like like
everything else. It's about trying to
find the balance, right?
>> So that's right. So um you mentioned
you're a first generation American. How
did that affect you? But what what what
does that do to your worldview, your
work ethic? How how does it affect your
uh outlook and and career progress?
>> Uh look, I I think being a firstgen and
and just kind of my you know, the
neighborhood I grew up, which I often
describe to people, you know, if you've
been to Chinatown, well, Washington
Heights when I grew up there was the
Dominican version of of Chinatown. But
um look, I mean, I grew up around strong
family values. Um I had a great home
life ve very privileged that way strong
work ethic coming in but I but I did but
I did grow up in a bubble right so at
one end uh what I took with me when I
exited or left that bubble was work
work worth work worth work worth work
worth work worth work worth work ethic
was kind of uh understanding
relationships and and that but uh then
when I left that bubble um it was more
defined by okay I was in different
audiences I was in um in situations
where and more acclimating was kind of
more my my focus and my goal for early
part early part of my career.
>> H really really interesting. You come
out of Tuck, you uh end up being an
analyst. Tell us about the early days uh
post postgrad school.
Yeah, I think postgrad school I I was
still trying to figure out what I what I
really wanted to do because, you know,
if I even go pre, you know, coming out
of undergrad, you know, I I had a
finance degree. I was good at math and,
you know, I asked people, "What are you
supposed to do with this?" And people
mentioned Wall Street and firms like JP
Morgan and Goldman Sachs and I was
fortunate enough to get a job at JP
Morgan. I went, everyone was taking a
GMAT. I had no idea what a GMAT was, but
I figured I'm supposed to take it as
well. and I went to grad school and then
coming out of grad school I went back to
Wall Street. I not not necessarily
thinking that's what I wanted my career
to be but I didn't really have a plan
for anything else. I think as I started
really searching around what I wanted to
do and and and instead of advising
people kind of doing things that were
going to be there for the long term
build something um you know I found my
way into the buy side right and that my
first job kind of in investing working
at AIG global investment group I think
today it's called Pinebridge uh but that
was my first real like investing job and
and even there finding my way I started
out in equities and I was like okay I
like this but I felt like you know the
other side as I ran into people on bond
side and uh and and and private credit.
Um I I felt that that was more kind of
cash flow-based versus I used to get
annoyed where my model I felt like my
models were right but the markets never
cooperated with uh so it didn't matter
that I was right. I felt more at home in
that environment where it was more
around okay how how do I judge the
downside? How do I kind of really
analyze cash flows? And and then I found
myself on the buy side and I found
myself uh as a private credit manager.
Um, I think from there, interesting
enough, I said, "Hey, this I found my
thing. I love doing this." Um, and I
always found myself in situations where
I did what I did really well and
somebody always asked me to do a little
more. And in that little more, it was
always kind of like extending myself and
say, "Okay, uh, am I still or am I now
gathering and and doing different
things?" And then ultimately, especially
when I was at TIA, it was this idea of
like, oh, you know, should we go into um
uh agriculture? Should we go into
commodities? And I was like, well, here
I'm a kid from New York City. I don't
really know anything about agriculture
and commodities. But you know what? I uh
I kind of dived in and said, this is
interesting. Um, this was the other
thing that took me to another place in
my career, uh, that that I'd say I took
another people viewed as a big risk
because at that point, you know, I was
managing about a $15 billion private
credit portfolio back then. That was a
that was a pretty major thing. Felt like
a lot of money.
>> Felt like a lot of money. And it was and
is. Um, and I I kind of made a decision
from doing these kind of nights and
weekends on this project of going into
farmland. Um, I made a decision to say,
"You know what? I'm gonna leave all this
behind. I want to go try to build this."
And even my ch the CIO at the time said,
"Are you sure you want to do this?
Because, you know, maybe I'll tell you
what, why don't why don't you give this
a run, but you know what? We'll we'll
keep your job warm for you here." I
think he figured he'll come running back
in 6 months.
>> Give this a run, meaning the CIO
position,
>> meaning uh running a farmland fund.
>> Oh, okay.
>> And um, you know, I I so I I went out
and said, "Oh, I want to do this." we
ended up becoming the largest farmland
fund institutional manager for farmland
assets globally um uh at at the time and
you know one of the things that if my
philosophy in doing these things is you
know taking the confidence to always
kind of try things that get me excited
and and that I feel passionate about but
I think throughout my investing life you
know one mantra I've always had is you
know you got to be really good at
knowing what you don't know
>> and that that comes with being more
humble that comes with kind asking a lot
of questions, not being intimidated by
bringing people around you that are
smarter than you because I was like,
"Hey, I could understand people. I can
understand math." Um, now how do I fill
in these blanks? How do I get people
around me that going to give me kind of
the knowledge that I know I don't have?
And that that career progression was
from farmland. They said, "Hey, wow, you
did an amazing job. Can you take real
estate? Can you take natural resources?
Can you take all of private markets? and
then ultimately can you be the chief
investment officer and then growing that
into a asset management firm. And what I
realized was that what I thought my
passion was was in investing. Um but the
real passion that I really found was was
in building building things, you know,
managing teams and bringing teams
together.
>> So, so I want to circle back to building
what you did at New.
>> How do you go from JP Morgan to AIG to
Merrill? What ultimately leads you to
new?
>> You know what leads me to is just uh it
I always say like picking up the
breadcrumbs, right? I was I was on a
journey of really kind of searching
again what's my passion? What do I want
to do? I was very fortunate, you know,
here I am. I'm sitting on at a job on
Wall Street at JP Morgan. Very fortunate
to have it, but I couldn't see myself
doing that job for 20 years. Then I'm
like, "Oh, I'm fortunate to get a job on
the buy side." And I'm like, "Okay, this
is great. I'm at AIG, you know, uh, uh,
it's a terrific opportunity, terrific
firm, yet there's still that thing that
I'm kind of still trying to find that
feels like, hey, what's really getting
my juices going? And, you know, it was
always that search for for that thing
that kind of made me get up early in the
morning. And when I ultimately landed at
New, which was part of uh, TIA, that was
that role. And I ended up being there 20
years. And then and I and I would tell
you the large the the longest role I've
ever had in my life in my entire career
was my five years or so as was my role
as CEO there. TW
>> even 20 years is a long time in the
modern world to be at any one firm. It
seems people don't do that anymore. What
was it that kept you there? It sounds
like they kept piling on new challenges
and really keeping you engaged.
>> Yeah, that's exactly right. meaning um I
like the longest role I've had in my
career is the five years I was the CEO.
Part of that every 3 four years someone
was giving me something else to build. I
always say I I get itchy. I maybe I'm
not the best steward in the world but
what does get me excited is is building
things kind of building new teams you
know um the challenge of kind of like
growing a capability. Um and I got to do
that over the course of 20 years. I've
been extremely blessed and same thing in
moving to my role now. It's it's a
tremendous opportunity and you know I
could still say that 20 plus years um I
I still get excited every morning to
kind of go to work.
>> When when you say building new teams,
give us an example of some of the sort
of teams you helped build that kept you
occupied for 20 years.
>> Sure. I mean one I I I mentioned the
farmland example that was a complete
startup from
>> from scratch from zero from zero dollars
to kind of go in and building a team.
You know, I'm very proud of what we did
in private credit. You know, we we
started the Churchill group with, you
know, again, that was finding the right
people, finding Ken Conell, who was a
tremendous leader and had a team with
them. And we started with zero. Today,
that broader platform at Nuvine is uh
almost uh you know, call it just short
of 100 billion in private credit. Um, so
there's multiple examples like that
where the basically the blueprint was
either we were doing an acquisition or
we were finding a team and we're saying,
"Okay, we've got the right makings here
of a team. How do we give this team the
right tools uh and go out and try to
grow grow a platform?"
>> So, you're no stranger to alternatives.
We we've talked about farmland, uh, real
estate, private credit, private debt,
natural resources. What is your view
today on alts? What do you think about
what kind of feels a little bit like a
land rush? What what's going on in the
world of vaults today?
>> Yeah. And you know, it feels like a land
rush, but I I will tell you that this
has been building for some time. And and
and the interesting thing is,
>> you know, if I go back 10, 15 years ago,
my pitch talking to clients around
alternatives was one that was largely
academic, right? It was this idea of um
>> diversification.
>> Diversification. Hey, by the way, I know
you haven't seen inflation in 20 years,
but it may show up. And if it does, are
you protected for it? By the way, you
may be going to a market where there's a
lot more volatility.
Have you thought about that? And then
also, hey, have you thought about yield?
You know, uh, you know, there's ways to
kind of think about principal protection
in your portfolio and then yield. And
alternatives, I would say it's just a
way of bringing in the right
correlations into your portfolio. And
the and and some of the biggest alpha in
alternatives is the lack of access,
>> meaning the illquidity. You can't sell
in a panic because the market's off 8%.
>> Yeah. And in many ways, you know, you're
you're going to kind of structure and
get a return you're looking for because
there you need to have a specific skill
or access point to get those assets. So
then maybe the markets are a little bit
less efficient.
>> You know, the interesting thing is today
that academic conversation has turned
into urgency, right? So now uh while
markets have obviously continued to be
at all-time highs, I think individual
investors have felt what volatility
feels like. Whether that was coming out
of the global financial crisis, whether
that was out of COVID and the in and the
pandemic, we have felt and seen a lot of
significant volatility.
>> 2022, first time in 40 years, stocks and
bonds both down double digits. Like
people seem to think volatility gets
conquered every few years. And whenever
there's any sort of complacency, the
market says now's the time to teach
people volatility never goes away.
>> Yeah. And and throughout that throughout
that time period, you've also have seen
the growth of index funds, right? So
also on top of that is this idea of
like, you know, I always say the world's
become more commoditized. When I entered
the industry, you differentiated
yourself by picking better securities
than the next person and driving
returns. Then all of a sudden, there was
a focus on cost. Believe it or not, once
upon a time, you know, fees, nobody paid
attention to fees. I think then it was,
well, no, you're going to compete on
fees as well. And then became the race
to zero.
>> Today, you know, investment performance
is obviously extremely important, but
it's table stakes. Cost, we're all we're
all kind of basically at the bottom end
of that curve for cost. So, now it's
it's more around what are the outcomes
you're going to deliver to someone.
Technology is a it's a big component. It
is the flexibility that you offer you
offer clients, but it is ultimately
about what is the outcomes you're going
to get to clients and that 7030
portfolio that passive fund that that
hey you're in a target date fund you
don't have to do anything just sit back
and it all adjusts and drives kind of
the returns you need. Well, in those
moments where correlations go to one, it
didn't feel so good.
>> That's right.
>> It didn't feel so good. And I think now
it's there's more sophistication in
terms of how you package you know uh
solutions more sophistication now on the
need to get alternatives to uh to to
clients. I think these things all now I
think again what was an academic
conversation today is is an is an
urgency.
>> So the phrase I've heard from a number
of people over the past year or so has
been um 7030 6040 that's the old way.
The new way is 50 30 20. Are you in that
camp?
>> Yeah. Look, I think 50 30 20 130 30 uh
look at the end of the day I I would say
it's not really about whether you should
be in the 50 the 30 ultimately it starts
with a conversation around what are the
outcomes you're looking for? What are
your needs? Right? These these markets
and when you think about alternatives by
the way these are not get-richqu
>> schemes. These are not like oh my god we
need alternatives because there's like
this outsized return in many cases I
mentioned to you farmland that was a 4
to 6% return market but extremely
consistent
>> and long time lock and
>> longterm lockup yeah and um but it gave
you a certain correlation so yes like
all these different mechanisms at the
end of the day though what it's really
all about is what are the outcomes
you're trying to drive for your clients
and and and what is the sophistication
we have and the ability to construct
those portfolios and the most important
thing in constructing those portfolios
is do you have access to a broad array
of capabilities because the more access
you have to different types of assets
the better the outcome is portfolio
theory 101. So when you were at New, you
ran about a trillion dollars in assets.
You led the company through a big
expansion through the COVID pandemic and
then you helped expand the entire
digital engagement. Um tell us a little
bit about what you put together at New.
Well, I think I get enuven if uh if I
you know was quite a 20-y year journey
because I joined when um it was
basically just the investment uh team
for TIA.
>> That was right after the dotcom
implosion around 04 something like that.
>> That was around 04. Uh actually, yeah, I
really started in ' 05.
>> Um and really I was just an it was just
an investment team. Like I said, I
joined as a as a fixed income portfolio
manager. At the time, we're managing
money for about a $200 billion general
account where everything was based in
New York City.
>> When you say general account, you're
managing it on behalf of New Specific
clients.
>> I was managing on behalf of the the
balance sheet of TIA, which is an
insurance which is an insurance company.
So largely just that was really the
structure. We
had not acquired Nuvine yet at that at
that time. But from that 200 billion,
you fast forward to today and what I was
there to help build and it became a
trillion dollar asset manager. One where
it still managed approximately $200
billion balance sheet, but then it
raised another 800 plus billion in just
outside capital. These are sovereign
wealth funds, wealth platforms, retail.
Um, and it grew to, you know, about
almost two two and a 2 250 billion in
alternatives as well. So pretty
diversified
diversified shop, which now you're
seeing a lot of firms trying to kind of
capture that same not just scale, but
diversity in in their business.
>> Let's talk a little bit about real
assets that you've had a lot of
background in. Tell us about real
estate, agriculture, timber,
infrastructure. Tell us how you built
those areas previously at New BNY.
>> Sure. And I think um look, I think first
of you think about those different asset
classes. I go back to these are not
typically, you know, strategies that
you're trying to get outsized returns if
they sometimes they come and they're
very much welcomed. They're typically
pretty pretty structured transactions,
right? Whether it's buildings with
rents, farmland with with leases,
infrastructure with kind of 20, 30year
contracts, often there is a hedge
against inflation, whether that is
contractual or just by the nature of the
commodity. So,
>> right, prices go up, land goes up, what
follows it.
>> So, the simple kind of math on these
things are I'm clipping a coupon.
>> Uh, so there's a yield component and
it's a pretty steady one. I um I I I
have a gold-like protection because if
you think about um what do I own? Um I
own farmland in in a particular case.
Well, that produces a a a need for
society in perpetuity. So there's a
certain kind of protection in your
principle in owning that or uh you know
wind farms just again there's intrinsic
value. I have a yield, but it's usually
tied to a commodity. And because of
that, there's also an inflation hedge
component to it. And it brings down my
volatility because it's again it's it's
more of that consistent uh return
profile. So, it plays that part in
portfolios that it gives a yield. It
gives it in a way that should be pretty
kind of high sharp ratio, low lower
volatility. Now, today that market is
start it's it's trying to get into more
mainstream. Mhm.
>> Now, if I fast forward to my opportunity
going to BNY. Now, look, I I had that
journey in my previous life. What I saw
in BNY is where the industry is going,
right? BNY obviously is two times the
size of where where I came from, but
it's also part of BNY the bank.
>> Uh, and BNY the bank touches about a fi
a fifth of the world's investable
assets. So, there's almost
>> Yeah. There's almost $60 trillion, call
it 55,56 trillion to be exact, that the
bank is touching and it's either
managing these assets, it's either
custodying these assets or it's helping
move kind of the finan the global
financial markets around. That is
tremendous kind of access points to
someone like me sitting as an asset
manager because I'm working at I'm
working at a firm that is one of the
largest asset servicesers in the world.
It also is one of the largest
servicesers to wealth platforms. I
registered investment advisors. Well, I
have a wealth platform. I manage I
manage an investment platform. How do I
get advantage of the fact that there's
tremendous technology being invested to
to help serve asset managers? And if I
go back to a comment that we that we
talked about previously, which is if the
world's becoming more commoditized with
performance and cost, um, then what is
the difference? The difference in what
is the tip of the spear is technology.
You hear about tokenized assets, which
of which BNY is on the forefront.
>> That's just about helping clients move
money quicker. Do
>> define what tokenized assets mean when
we're talking about stocks or bonds.
>> I think we the simplest way that I think
about tokenized assets is it's an
ability to again be more liquid. Meaning
if you were in a T+1 scenario, do you
have the ability to be in a T + 5
minutes scenario?
>> So for for the lay person, T+1 means you
sell something today, it clears
tomorrow, the cash is in your account
one day later. T +0 as some people call
it means you sell it and you instantly
get the cash. Is that what tokenization
does for for people?
>> That that's that's a big component. So
that's creating that liquidity where if
you had to wait 24 hours,
>> now you can wait a lot less than 24
hours. The other thing that it helps do
is also kind of you're able to earn a
yield um on
>> because you're getting the cash. Now for
most people, one day doesn't matter, but
scale that up to an institution, scale
that up to a bank or an insurer, that
day times thousands and thousands of
accounts and transactions really adds
up, doesn't it? I mean scale that to
again B and Y is kind of touching and
helping move $55 trillion.
>> So T plus 0 or T plus 5 minutes that's
much better than T+1
>> that and it's a big difference and your
ability again to potentially earn a
yield in that process. Um also right in
that in that whole T+1 in that 24 hours
in many cases you're not able to earn a
yield while that money is clearing. So
back in the bad old days when it was T
plus3, we were always told, hey, it
takes three days to just make sure
there's no fraud, the right stock is
going to the right buyer, the money goes
to the right account. And when they got
shrunk down to one day, well, technology
has allowed us to do this, but we still
need a day just to verify everything.
What is it that allows us to go to T
plus0? Is it just technology? tell us
how how that works.
>> Yeah, look, I think techn obviously the
blockchain technology is one component.
The other component is the fact that uh
you know one of the reasons BNY can lead
in this area is that it it it custodies
around 80 plus% of the digital assets.
>> Digital assets meaning Ethereum,
Bitcoin, any other sort of things like
that.
>> And and it's one of the it is the
largest custodian in the world in
general. So clearing something becomes a
lot easier when it's all sitting in
inside. I mean, think about a warehouse.
If I don't have to move it from where
one warehouse to the other,
>> that makes life a lot easier. So that
>> goes from one you're not even moving it
from one row to another. You're just
changing the label. Here's who owns
this.
>> Yeah. Now, and again, I will tell you
for me, it's uh I was having a
conversation with our CEO about this the
other day where I'm like, one of the
other things I love about my career
right now, look, it's been a long time
since I walk into rooms and I'm learning
something because typically, you know,
you be I was a subject matter expert and
typically most rooms that I walked into,
I I felt like I I was the expert in that
in that category. I'm not an expert on
tokenization.
>> I'm not an expert on on on on custody.
uh I work at a firm that that is that
has experts and you know you're quickly
quickly learning and what's important
there I go back to hey but what I do
understand even though I know what I
don't know is this matters to my clients
so all of a sudden if I if I am trying
to think about hey how am I pitching my
services to clients in Asia and and
around the globe and I and I have a
differentiating factor meaning I can
help you go to T plus zero Mhm.
>> Um that is a differentiator from a
relationship perspective and this is
what I mean by where today it's it's
there's so much more consolidation in
the asset management industry because
scale is important and why is scale
important because you then need to be
able to service and invest in these
technologies to service your client. AI
is is a big topic today and I would I
would I would argue and say well if
>> it's no longer debatable that AI is here
and it's going to be disruptive is going
to make a difference. So if you believe
that
>> you also have to believe that the firms
who can invest in it are going to be the
winners for tomorrow. Now I you know
being able to invest hundreds of
millions of dollars in in AI that takes
significant scale that takes kind of
diversified businesses being able to
hire engineers right so when I was
sitting usually in the role of running
an asset management shop it's very hard
for me to even say how am I even going
to attract engineers from Silicon Valley
how am I going to be able to pay them
well BNY is a massive tech stack right
like they can attract a lot of engineers
they can attract a lot of investment in
AI I just happen to be in that realm,
part of that universe, and I'm going to
be able to benefit from from that
technology.
>> So, let me step back a second because
we're all guilty of using acronyms, and
even something like BNY, you and I
understand it, but perhaps the listener
needs to learn a little more. BNY is
Bank of New York. It's been around for
how long?
>> 240 plus years. I think we're at 241
241. So more than almost two and a half
centuries, more than two centuries.
>> But I got to add to the because I'm
always f I will tell you even as I
joined BNY there were things I did not
know. You know obviously it's the first
bank in the United States. It was the
first bank to issue the first loan or
warrant
>> begun by
>> Alexander Hamilton. It was the first uh
company traded on the New York Stock
Exchange. Was the first first public
company, right? Um, you know, our first
clients of the of the bank were George
Washington and Eliza Hamilton and you
know, so it's it's just got incredible
incredible history,
>> unbelievable history. In addition to all
that history, BNY is also affiliated
through ownership with a lot of really
well-known names uh within uh finance.
Tell us about some of the other
divisions that maybe people will will be
more familiar with those names. Yeah,
and I tell you, I think this has a lot
to do with kind of the recent
performance you're seeing about the firm
because it's unlocking what we would
describe as, you know, BNY is a platform
operating
has a has a platform operating model,
meaning it has multiple platforms. You
know, of course, it has an asset manager
and it has a wealth business as we said.
It's got a two2 trillion asset manager.
It's got about a $350 billion private
bank wealth platform. By the way, it
also owns Persian and Persian
>> giant clearing shop and
>> and that captures around almost three
trillion in in advisor advisor capital
uh that it's servicing through a
technology and a service in a service
platform. Um it it's has an asset
servicing arm and that asset servicing
is serving both asset managers and asset
owners doing things like custody uh uh
fund accounting. Um it um it it it has a
treasury component as well. You know the
other interesting thing about BNY is it
clears all the treasuries of the United
States. So uh you know it's a GIB. It's
it's a significant bank uh and plays an
important part in our financial in our
financial system.
>> H really really interesting. So tell me
the story of how you move from new to
your role as global head of BNY
investments. You're doubling the size of
the assets. You're responsible. How have
you approached this change? What what
sort of challenges did you face?
>> You know, I think every challenge that's
kind of a that's really attracted me
including what you know what kept me in
my previous role and and the different
roles I was in. It was the opportunity
for growth, right? And uh I think
looking at um at BNY and and seeing
where I believe the industry is going,
just saw a tremendous opportunity of
what is a $2 trillion shop, you know,
should should easily be a $4 trillion
shop, right? You think about the
ecosystem that that we play in within
BNY, right? As I mentioned, you you
know, we
>> we manage money for other people as an
asset manager. We manage money also as a
wealth platform for for families and
individuals. Um yet we also have we also
service other uh wealth advisors through
purging,
>> but they're also the clients of the
firm. I'm an asset manager. A lot of my
competitors are clients of BNY as well.
So, and then you think about the
technology that it takes to do all that
and and and grow that technology stack.
I I feel like a kid on a candy store for
two reasons. One, um that's a tremendous
amount of infrastructure and
capabilities that are there that I
should have a home field advantage to.
The other thing is that has become a lot
easier in my job is you know when you
touch a fifth of the world's assets
most most people are your clients. So
getting getting having a conversation
with potential clients is very easy to
do. A lot of what you've seen the the
the recent success of BNY and I think
you said this earlier is a collection of
a lot of different things that were
either acquired or or built is that uh
but it was also a very siloed
organization for a while. the ability of
having that cross connection. If I look
at a world that AI is going to be
important, you know, being able to touch
your clients in multiple ways and have
broader technology, I am sitting in that
in in a spot where in those all those
platform operating models, I'm two of
those, but I'm I'm fitting in pretty
well. I'm trying to take the advantage
of the other five or six that are around
me. Um, a great example of that of what
that I is Archer. Archer is a
>> that's a digital platform. It's a
technology platform for SMAs,
>> right? So, i.e. your ability to clients
want to be able to we talked about
solutions, your ability to go to an
archer and by the way, my previous job,
Archer, I was was a I was a client of
Archer
>> and SMAS stand for separately managed
accounts, right?
>> Separately managed accounts. So, again,
now you go back to technology, meaning
you may be able to manage bonds and
equities and alternatives or even tax
managed solutions. Believe it or not,
bringing that together in a package for
individuals takes technology.
>> Of course, asset managers traditionally
they're they're stock pickers or
investors, they're not technology
people. So, you go to that platform and
do that. Now, when I joined BNY, I'm
like, okay, this is great. Uh they've
acquired Archer. I know that they have a
great capability for doing this and this
is a growing market. And already our our
wealth platform is a client of Archer
before it was even acquired. the asset
management arm of BNY was already a
client was acquired.
>> Now, Archer is also free to grow because
it services a broader cap broader
capability. So, if you're
>> services BNY and BNY clients.
>> Yeah. And that's important because
again, if you think about this the model
of tomorrow and what scale matters is
one you can you it's its own business
and just kind of providing what Archer
does to the broader to the broader like
uh community. We get an inside where we
get an inside view and a home field
advantage and getting it ourselves.
Typically, if I build my own SMA
platform, I have to now worry about how
do I feed it to grow it.
>> Other people are feeding it to grow it
and I get the benefit of kind of being
attached to it. And I think that
connectivity around, hey, everything I
do in my on the asset management side,
you know, all those clients at Purging,
they buy that as well. Should we not be
engaging with our clients to do more for
them? It's like sure we're doing
clearing for you and custody and
offering you technology. We also have
asset management all of them obviously
by asset management as well. So having
those connective dots I think is uh I
think is a tremendous competitive
advantage.
>> So I want to talk a little bit about
your role. I want to define it better.
At no you were CIO and then you were
CEO. Two distinct positions. Your title
is head, global head of BNY investments
and wealth. Sounds like a little bit of
each. You you're building, but you're
also helping to direct the investing.
Tell us a little bit about your roles
and responsibilities uh in this new
position at BNY.
>> Yeah, I think I look on one end of the
spectrum is very similar to my previous
role which is BNY investments is an
asset manager. you know, obviously it's
a much bigger one than than than the
firm I came from, but it's an asset
manager and there, you know, um I'm I'm
the chief executive for that particular
platform. We also have a wealth
platform. Um and and and and very
different from asset management. It's
more dealing with individuals and
advice, but there's also synergies in
the business, right? Meaning, if you're
a wealth adviser, you're talking about
how do you create investment products?
How do you source them? Well, we have
investment products and how do we how do
we make sure those two groups are
talking to each other? What's the
products that we're creating? If you're
an asset manager, a big part of who our
clients are are wealth adviserss. So,
having a good understanding of kind of
what wealth advisors need, it really
helps to have a wealth adviser in house.
>> Sure.
>> So, I'm managing a larger platform, but
at the end of the day, my job is still
very similar. It's about picking the
right teams and people. you you know we
talk about$ two trillion dollars and I
would tell you two trillion should go to
four trillion we don't own any of that
money the end of the day our biggest
value set of what we do and have is our
people and obviously the technology that
we can we can offer those folks but
people is kind of really our business
and I've kind of see my job today really
as the chief chief people officer for
how we kind of build teams around this
>> so so let's talk about who the clients
are at BNY uh you mentioned raia as and
advisors, my day job, but you also work
with institutions. You work with high
netw worth and family offices um as well
as other uh players in the investing
world who are also clients.
Sounds like you guys are a little bit of
everything to a lot of different people.
How do you keep all that um running
smoothly? How do you keep all those
balls in the air?
>> Yeah. Oh, look, I think uh BNY is often
described as the bank of banks, right?
Because again, it's kind of that broader
provider and in goes the opportunity
set, right? Like again, you look at the
firm, I don't know the last I looked,
the stock was about 106, you know,
that's uh in in less than a threeyear
span or thereabouts from $40. It makes
it one of the best performing kind of
financial stocks.
>> And financials have been kind of lagging
the tech sector for a couple of years.
They're starting to play a little bit of
catch-up. They're playing a little
catch-up. Uh they're doing better, but I
think few are doing better, if any, are
doing better than than BNY. Some of it
goes back to that question you just
asked me.
>> Yeah. That there's a lot of these the
the way it would the way typically these
conglomerates or these platforms would
typically manage, we're very siloed. you
know, the ability to bring in the the
technology and the leadership to say,
how do we have better connectivity
across all our platforms is where the
value proposition is and the market is
seeing that and the market is rewarding
that.
>> So, it's funny earlier we talked about
how commoditized so much of the world
has become. You're basically saying we
need to be an integrated solutions
provider and not just have these
commoditized silos which is what exists
outside of a mega bank of banks like
BNY.
>> Yeah. so much that we used to talk about
the you know concept of selling watches
you know I think that you know the the
world doesn't really it's it's hard to
sell watches now people people are
looking for they need you know our
clients are getting more efficient they
need to scale their operations as well
and is the idea of like do I want to
work with 150 managers or am I better
off working with 20 30 or 40
>> and if I'm going to go from 150
different types of um managers you know
to 20 or 30, how do I pick those 20 or
30? What's going to differentiate that?
Uh so I think a lot of that is is what's
driving the need for scale. It's what's
driving the need for consolidation and
it's also driving a lot of innovation.
>> So you you've mentioned technology a
couple of times. We've talked about
tokenization
uh and a little bit about AI. What are
the big technological trends that we can
look for uh over the next couple of
years? Where are you thinking about how
technology is going to have the biggest
impact on asset managers and on
investors?
>> Yeah, it's interesting and and honestly
um I often I my my narrative has
changed. I used to say look AI is going
to be very disruptive but I have no idea
if it's 5 years from now or 20 years
from now. And by the way that makes it
very difficult to invest in it,
>> right? Because it's when are you going
to get the returns for it? you know
clearly now that's come into a lot more
clarity because where you know AI has
begun to already yield returns for firms
and BNY is no different is on the
productivity side right you know I think
BNY is one of the first firms to have
digital employees so digital employees
that can work on real problems um and
that's driving productivity increases
and that's kind of been a large part of
the narrative with uh with AI now the
new narrative is it can also provide
value at. So again, as an as a as an
investor, do you have the capability of
instead of the the old way of we're
going to look at satellite pictures and
see how many cars are in the are in the
on the driver? Well, now AI can actually
track devices, right, and kind of see
where things are coming. Um, AI is able
to go through a lot more information um
and and disseminate that information. So
uh you know I I still say that human
beings with AI will be better than human
beings without uh AI i.e. you're still
going to need the component for uh for
human beings in in the mix. Um but so
much of the future is unknown and and
and by the way I think that's also the
uneasy part that we are today in our
markets because if you if you speak to
individuals on one end I can kind of
picture and say the economy is doing
great. uh earnings earnings are strong,
consumer household balance sheets uh are
strong, wages are still relatively, you
know, strong um as well. Um and there's
a there's a strong kind of like very
constructive view to putting your money
in the markets today even at these
valuations.
>> The other side of that story is okay,
but then uh are we losing the
independence of the Fed? uh are there
geopolitical issues and wars out there
that can also you know cause massive
disruptions in in in the global economy
policy issues uh you know and fiscal
issues coming to the forefront that
could just be mistakes that happen so at
the same time there's so many things
then that that can go wrong right I
would say we're probably at a all-time
high of things that can go wrong yet
where you sit today should feel pretty
good in terms of you know the the
economics and and the economy and I
think technology is the same thing. It's
like wow AI is going to be disruptive.
Um we're what we think AI can do is
literally changing every week every
month. Uh and again that in many ways is
exciting in many ways it's also
extremely uh unsettling
>> to say the very least. Since you brought
up the current state of the world u
profits are all-time highs but it seems
like risks are at all-time highs. I want
to throw two of your own um quotes back
at you and and get your thoughts on it.
In the beginning of this year, you said
risk assets are going higher. What led
you to that conclusion and has the year
played out as you expected?
>> Clearly, look, I I I think and I think
there was a little bit uh I I think I
was challenged a little bit on that
comment and remember I said it um right
after liberation day. So, the markets
were obviously falling off. Mhm.
>> There was a tremendous amount of concern
with the tariffs and what would come.
You know, I I had two two thoughts
there. One, um, understanding that I
thought the current administration that
we have was going to about the carrot
and the stick
>> and we started out the year with the
stick, but you know what, the carrot was
going to show up at some point.
>> And then two, this other view of,
>> you know, most of us don't have a choice
to be riskoff, right? The the idea that
like, you know, being risk off through
these different cycles hasn't really
paid off. So the one thing you should do
is like go back and look at the
fundamentals. But yes, if you're saying
I'm going to just take a correlation of
one or just take broad market exposure,
it's more than again the academic
conversation being more of an urgency.
If you think about the the actual
conversation around I'm structured for
solutions for outcomes in my portfolio,
then why should you be riskoff? You you
already plan for this um right? I I
maybe plan to have part of my principle
protected. maybe plan to have certain
amounts of yield or uncorrelated assets
in my portfolio. So my viewpoint is
again one the fundamentals are there to
not say exit the market but two this
should not always be around should I buy
this stock or that stock or should I go
bonds or equities
>> has to be broader
>> it has to be it has to be broader
because you know we're not a hedge fund
and a lot of what we do is not about
that it is about driving long-term
outcomes. So, another quote of yours
that caught my attention was noise is at
all-time highs. I totally agree, but
explain your point of view.
>> Yeah, and I'll explain it. I'll explain
it both in terms of kind of the where we
are in our markets and then also like
it's also like a personal philosophy.
Um, one, this is what I mean by things
look very calm, things look very
constructive, yet we can I think my team
at the time, and this was back in
January, I think there were like 26 or
30 different like press releases or
things that happened that kind of really
jolted the markets in some way or caused
concern. M
>> so the list of the things going on
whether it's inflation whether it's
political um you know the Fed policy
changes wars
the list
>> it's endless
>> it's endless so there's that I think is
at an all-time high of the things that
okay what's the list of what can go
wrong
>> but then you know the other thing with
noise and I I say this to my kids I try
to I I'm still trying to master this
>> is that in most cases 80% of what you
hear is just noise Right. And already in
stock prices.
>> Yeah, it's there. It's like 20% actually
matters. You know, I I said to be a good
investor, you have to be good at knowing
what you don't know, but I also think
you also have to be good at taking
emotion off the table. You could see a
lot. Obviously, we're a pretty divided
country politically. I would say like
don't bring that to your investing,
right? So, it's more like take the
emotion out. Uh don't let the noise suck
you in. Go back and it's about the
fundamentals. It's about what's in front
of you. It's about your outcomes. I I
love the concept of knowing what you
don't know. Let's address that. What are
investors not talking about, not
thinking about, but should what topics,
assets, geography, policy, data points,
whatever? What what is not at the
forefront of many investors minds, but
maybe is getting overlooked?
You know, and again, this is going to
sound very simple and it's been talked
about since the beginning of our
markets. Um, you know, it's true
diversification.
Um, and again, it it it sounds simple,
but it's not because, you know, the old
diversification is that 7030, 60, 40
stocks, bonds.
The the markets are a lot more complex
and sophisticated. that idea of having
that conversation now around let's talk
about what I'm trying to accomplish not
hey I think large caps are hot now so
I'm going to put you in them hey you
know you see technology stocks I think
technology is going to do really good
that to me is what's really being
overlooked is again where I know a lot
of people sit down with their adviserss
and they're getting that academic
you know uh dissertation on you should
be diversified this is why this is
But often the conversation falls right
back to is it large caps, small caps, is
it tech stocks, is it banks, is it
financials? Like that's not the right
conversation. Even as it also publiclix,
it's it's everything. It's all of that.
And it's using technology and solutions
and packages um to create the right
construct for individuals. M
>> makes a lot of sense to me. I only have
you for a couple of more minutes, so
let's jump to our speed round. our
favorite questions we ask all our guests
starting with who were your mentors who
helped shape your career?
>> You know, I' I've had so many and and
I'll tell you um you know, they they
they started with family members. Uh
I've had professors. I've had, you know,
the dean of the business school at
Manhattan College I felt like was a
mentor to me. Um I I have my pre
previous bosses I that I still stay in
touch with and try to have lunch and
dinner with. Um, so I have many people
that I can that I can kind of thank.
>> Huh, that's very nice. Um, let's talk
about books. What are some of your
favorites? What are you reading right
now?
>> You know, I there's uh I'm not a I'm not
a fiction guy, so most of what I read is
non-fiction. I love all
>> I'm the same way.
>> I love all the I love all the Michael
Lewis's
>> uh uh uh books. Uh recently read The
Boys in the Boat. So, I I just love the
story about people and I love I love
reading about books that, you know, you
see perseverance in human beings. Right
now, it's I I'll tell you, I'm not
reading anything right now. I'm getting
ready to read something and I and I'm
wondering if it's going to stick, but
I've been hearing a lot about the
meditations by Marcus Aurelius.
>> Oh, sure.
>> And uh I I made the comment around 80%
of the things you hear is noise. My
understanding is that book has a lot
about that in there of like what you
should really spend your time thinking
about. So I was I was that synopsis and
I've heard two people now mention it. So
I say I'm I'm getting ready to read
that.
>> Let me bastardize that for you and say
to what I took from that was recognize
what's in your control and that's what
you focus on. What the Fed's going to do
we can't control. Don't lose sleep over
it.
>> Yeah.
>> Accept it. It's gonna be what it's going
to be, but focus on the things you can
control, you can change. Really, it has
absolutely stood the test of time. Yeah.
>> And if you're a Michael Lewis fan, I'm
going to I'm going to self-promote.
>> His most recent book that just came out,
Who is Government? We did a live Masters
in Business in April,
>> and I want to say the ratio of me
speaking to him was probably 3% to 97%.
for 90 minutes. He just regailed the
audience with stories and had people in
stitches. Absolutely hilarious stories
about Billy Bean and and uh Brad Pitt.
Uh tears down people's face.
>> I'm going to go listen to that. I'm
listening that to I'm going to listen.
Yeah, absolutely.
>> It he if you're a Michael Lewis fan, I I
think I've interviewed him 10 12 times.
That's my favorite interview. I I heard
stories I never heard before. He was
>> his books his books ruined all the
movies that have come out off of off of
his books cuz they none of them come
close in my opinion to the actual book.
>> So I'm I agree with you. The one that's
closest is Moneyball is at least I
listen the big short I love the book.
The movie wasn't bad. The blind side the
movie wasn't bad. Um but Moneyball
really captured the moment of
>> I agree that Moneyball was probably the
closest you got to the book. Yeah.
>> Yeah. No, no doubt about that. Um, what
about streaming? What are you watching
on Netflix or Amazon Prime or what
podcasts are you listening to?
>> Yeah, you know, it's it's very similar
to kind of the whole non-fiction thing.
Um, I I'm a big fan of documentaries on
Netflix. There's two things that I'll
kind of do on streaming. It's like I was
watching The Men Who Built America,
>> uh, which is a great documentary. It
just again it has you know the JP
Morgans of the world the the car the the
Carnegies of the world Rockefellers and
Vanderbilts but what it shows you is the
tremendous amount of risk
>> that these individuals took and and what
was a very different time in America but
I love I love the documentaries and then
and then shows what'll happen is I don't
watch a lot of TV I I I will watch
sports but I'll hear things like
Breaking Bad everyone talked about I was
like all of a sudden you know I'm
watching ing it 10 15 years after the
fact and then that led me to say hey
there's this show Better Call Saul. So I
just went through the whole not just
went but you know I' I've been going
through the I went through Breaking Bad
and then like Better Call Saul and um so
the only way I watch shows now is well
they came out five seven years ago and
now I'll go in and be like okay I'll
I'll dig in.
>> We So I have two things for you. We saw
Madmen during the pandemic. I never saw
a single episode when it was on TV. I'm
like, "Wow, this is amazing TV."
>> And if you're a um documentary fan, the
Billy Joel documentary,
we're we're like threequarters of the
way through it. It's it's just amazing.
>> And I'm a I'm a big Billy Joel fan. Um
and uh yeah, I thought it was uh and
again, it's to me it's just history and
people, right? You just kind of just
learn love learning about people. And
then especially for me, it's I'm in awe
of folk of people who could do things I
can't, right? Like I'm in awe of a Billy
Joel when you hear about his process and
what he does and you're like it's hard
not to get inspired by it.
>> No, abs 100%. Um our final two
questions. What sort of advice would you
give to a recent college grad interested
in a career in investing?
you know, the the advice I give
everybody coming out of school and, you
know, I think they're waiting to hear
for some kind of special nugget on how
they're going to get ahead doing models
or what deals. And I'm like, do do the
easy things really well. Like I did this
intuitively not knowing how important it
was, which was, hey, I came into Wall
Street. You know, they're not going to
give I was fresh out of school. They
weren't going to give me a big client.
They weren't going to give me a big
model. But you know what? If someone
said, "I need copies." I ran and did
copy because, you know, I could do that.
That I can do. Uh, hey, book book a
restaurant for a client dinner. Hey,
don't worry about it. I got it. Um, so
to me, it's like early life is never
going to be that easy in your career
than when you're first out of school.
Don't come in day one thinking about how
do I get on, how do I start traveling to
meet clients and work the big deals.
It's like do the little things really,
really well. That is how they're going
to be able to judge you early on.
>> Good advice. And our final question,
what do you know about the world of
investing today you wish you knew 35 or
so years ago when you were first
starting out?
>> Yeah, I think it goes back to the um
when I start I first started learning
those lessons of don't pay attention to
the noise. Pay attention to what really
matters. So, you know, earlier on it's
hard not to get emotional about
investing. Sometimes it's a hard even
not to get completely kind of uh you
know you and I and I watch for this in
our PMs like PMs can fall in love
sometimes even with companies stocks and
even management teams that ability to
now say hey in all these cases be
objective
>> tell remind yourself be good at knowing
what you don't know take emotion off
focus on what really should matter not
all the noise that's surrounding it
>> so so interesting Jose thank you for
being so generous with your time we have
been speaking speaking with Jose Maniah.
He's global head of BNY Investments and
Wealth, managing $2.2 trillion.
If you enjoy this conversation, well, be
sure and check out any of the 550 we've
done over the past 11 years. You can
find those at Bloomberg, iTunes,
Spotify, YouTube, or wherever you get
your podcast from. Be sure to check out
my new book, How Not to Invest: The
Ideas, Numbers, and Behaviors That
Destroy Wealth and How to Avoid Them:
How Not to Invest at Your Favorite Book
Seller. I would be remiss if I did not
thank the crack team that helps put
these conversations together each week.
And I really mean this. Alexis Noriega
and Anna Luke are my producers. Shan
Russo is my researcher. Sage Bowman is
the head of podcasts at Bloomberg. I'm
Barry Roltz. You've been listening to
Masters in Business on Bloomberg Radio.
[Music]